# Life Cycle Assessment in AeroMAPS

The LCA module performs an environmental assessment of the scenarios using data from both AeroMAPS (e.g., fuel combustion emission factors) and the ecoinvent database (to describe background processes such as electricity generation). 

There are two ways to run the LCA in AeroMAPS:
1. **Using pre-computed LCA functions**: The default LCA module uses pre-compiled functions for various environmental impact categories, including both midpoint and endpoint impacts from ReCiPe2016. These functions are applied to the data generated by AeroMAPS to calculate the life-cycle impacts of the scenarios.
2. **Using custom LCA models**: The custom LCA module allows users to define their own LCA models using the ecoinvent database. This approach provides greater flexibility and customization, enabling users to tailor the LCA to their specific needs (e.g., by selecting different impact categories, updating characterisation factors for non-CO2 effects, or modifying the system boundaries). This module requires a more in-depth understanding of LCA principles and a valid ecoinvent license.

Both approaches are described in more detail in the following notebooks:
- [Default LCA module](./life_cycle_assessment_default.ipynb)
- [Custom LCA module](./life_cycle_assessment_custom.ipynb)

-----

**NOTE**
> When using the LCA module, the environmental profiles of the various fuel production pathways (biofuels and electrofuels) are calculated from *ecoinvent* data (completed by *premise*), thus replacing the user-provided characteristics of the fuel pathways provided in the `energy_inputs.yaml` files (for example, the mean CO2 emission factor). While this approach ensures broader coverage of environmental processes, it may also lead to results that are not fully consistent with those generated by AeroMAPS’ core impact models.

-----